Hi Adam,

I'm sorry I didn't give you that help letter you asked for. To be honest,
I did try to write it at one point, but I hated it and I thought all the
advice in there wouldn't be helpful, so I dropped it. Anyway, from what I 
heard at the tournament it seems like you're doing alright but you're
still a little confused, so I hope you'll still accept this a few months 
late.


How To Be A Debate Captain

Sometimes, this is really easy, and other times, this can be incredibly 
frustrating.

I think it's important to work with your strengths at first. I'm a 
numbers guy and I like lecturing, so that's where I was working from. To
be honest, I'm not quite sure where your strengths are. I know you're
pretty smart, but you might need to find a way to communicate that to the 
team. Maybe you prefer writing, or maybe you prefer examples.

This might not be the best advice, but I did it and it worked okay, accept 
for a few negative consequences. Make good friends with the debaters you
know are going to be active and stay relevant. I did this with the group
chat. You might have a different tool. You'd think it wouldn't be the case, 
but debate teams are great places to build good friendships. It can also be
super stressful.

That leads into another big thing. The people around you might be having a 
really hard time. Last year, I remember Maya was not in a good mental place, 
and Sean was having trouble at home. There were other cases like that. Not 
everyone is willing to open up about stuff like that, but sometimes they 
actually really want to and can't because no one is there to listen. I 
think I remember feeling like that was the hardest part of being a captain.
Sometimes team mates is having a really negative experience and I felt like
I had to take the burden off of them by absorbing some of that. For 
example, right now Maya has this super irrational fear of competing, and 
you might do well to help her realize how ridiculous it is. Or Kirsten. I 
spoke to her recently and she's really struggling with her junior year. I 
think I should leave it to you to find out the details. I want to help her, 
but I'm not over there in the action. It's sorta your job to help her and 
Vincens find some middle ground.

Despite all that, don't kill yourself trying to get other people to be okay.
"You can lead a horse to water, but you cannot force it to drink."

Remember that as cool as Vincens is, he has a talent for making people who
disagree with him dislike him a little bit. I think that's valuable, because
he has opinions and he sticks to them. But if you have students who are 
having trouble, sometimes that's not the best thing.

I want you to make a pattern.
2018 Kirsten
2017 Zach
2016 Higgins
2015 Higgins
2014 Devon
...  ...

What do you notice? It seems like there's always some captain who is having 
trouble doing their job/not doing their job. Sometimes it's by choice like
with Zach, and sometimes it's due to a lot of bullshit going on, like with 
Kirsten. The difference here is that you can help Kirsten. She's just having
a bug committment/communication problem. But that's what the captain is for.
You are the grease for the debate team machine.

Other than that, I have little else. If you do end up having questions, please
feel free to text me.

Good luck for the rest of the year,
Aidan
